during all sorrows in Japan there was
one place that caught my imagination
more than anywhere else
small island called Yakushima probably
the most biologically diverse place in
this entire country certainly the most
exciting destination for a naturalist
but I never quite got the chance to come
here until now
[Music]
yeah Kashima is an island is pretty much
defined by rainfall this is the soggiest
place in all of Japan in fact the locals
have a saying that uh gnocchi Shima it
rains 35 days a month that being the
case though the landscapes endlessly
rich and green and alive rent through
with streams of crystal clarity and it
hasn't rained today yes
this divine mossy forest is a botanist
green it's almost like a film set really
with all the trees draped in epiphytes
and vines every piece of dead wood or
tree root is covered with at least four
or five different species of moss
peppered through with fruiting bodies
you sort of expect to find some mystical
creature hiding behind each one the
architecture of this forest changes as
you climb higher along the mountain
trails with giant yakushima Cedars like
mighty pillars dominating the canopy the
ancient Cedars found on this island some
of the most fascinating trees in the
world and they look as if they've been
sculpted by some truly tormented mind
this one here is less than a thousand
years old they can get to be at least
twice that age the woods of such high
quality so full of resin but even a
couple of hundred years after the tree
dies the stump can actually prove a
seeding ground for a fresh tree locals
call trees like this Kosugi which means
youngster even so this one was around
before the time of the samurai but now
it's much more than just a tree there's
epiphytes other small trees and mosses
all growing off the main trunk it's a
whole living community and that's just
the plants if it was warmer it would be
crawling with life but for now the
subtropical heat seems to have deserted
us Oh got a frog little rain frog look
yakushima is absolutely perfect habitat
for frogs it's damp it's green there's
lots of food and I'd actually expected
to be seen an awful lot more than we
have done but it's a lot cooler than we
were expecting this rain frog will have
spent the coldest part of the year the
winter hibernating under this rock but
now it's spring time pretty soon they'll
be thinking about coming out looking for
a mate